README.md, before:

# CORSIKA Processing Pipeline

This repository contains scripts and notebooks for organizing, decoding, and plotting simulation data.  
All simulation folders share the same subdirectory structure: `.../particle/energy/angle/`



## Folder Description

All folders follow the same subdirectory structure, e.g.  

1. **/DATfiles**  
   Stores `DATxxxxxx` files generated by `gather_DAT.sh`.

2. **/Particles**  
   Stores particle number files generated by `corsikaReader.cpp`.

3. **/rawdata**  
   Stores raw simulation data.

## File Preparation

1. Set path (in `./gather_DAT.sh`, and  `corsikaPlot.ipynb`) to the simulation raw data.
2. Gather `DATxxxxxx` files from each subdirectory in raw data path into `/DATfiles` using:
   ```bash
   ./gather_DAT.sh
3. Decode Binary DATxxxxxx Files `make` and `./corsikaReader DATfiles/.../DATxxxxxx --thinned`. This step generates decoded particle files in the `/Particles` directory.


## Making Plots

Run the Jupyter notebook: `corsikaPlot.ipynb`
The notebook supports two different options for retrieving and plotting raw data (see notebook documentation for details).

Commit message:

Revise file preparation steps and add new script instructions
Updated file preparation steps in README.md to include changes for functions.py and added instructions for running RadiationEnergy.py.

README.md, after:

# CORSIKA Processing Pipeline

This repository contains scripts and notebooks for organizing, decoding, and plotting simulation data.  
All simulation folders share the same subdirectory structure: `.../particle/energy/angle/`



## Folder Description

All folders follow the same subdirectory structure, e.g.  

1. **/DATfiles**  
   Stores `DATxxxxxx` files generated by `gather_DAT.sh`.

2. **/Particles**  
   Stores particle number files generated by `corsikaReader.cpp`.

3. **/rawdata**  
   Stores raw simulation data.

## File Preparation

1. Set path (in `./gather_DAT.sh`, and  `functions.py`) to the simulation raw data.
2. Set input parameters in `functions.py` 
3. Gather `DATxxxxxx` files from each subdirectory in raw data path into `/DATfiles` using:
   ```bash
   ./gather_DAT.sh
4. Decode Binary DATxxxxxx Files `make` and `./corsikaReader DATfiles/.../DATxxxxxx --thinned`. This step generates decoded particle files in the `/Particles` directory.


## Making Plots

Run the Jupyter notebook: `corsikaPlot.ipynb`


## run radiation energy for multiple events

Run the python script: `RadiationEnergy.py`
